---
title: Open Source Is a Bad Gift Economy
excerpt: Foo.
noindex: true
---
{% include img.html src="social.webp" caption="" url="" %}

Let's take it that an economy is a system by which humans exchange goods and
services. Several such systems are commonly observed, such as armed robbery,
central planning, free trade. Rules for these systems sometimes end up in 
as laws and contracts, sometimes in unwritten social expectations.

The system most of us are most accustomed to is the global market economy: we
give money and get stuff, both parties walk away clean.

A gift economy is a system of exchange in which gifts carry obligations. The
exchange is agonistic. You are never clean, you're always entangled.

Open Source is a gift. Does it carry obligations? Is it agonistic?

Some think it does, some think it doesn't. For those who think it does, the
obligation to reciprocate is ill-defined. Mismatched expectations suck, and
we've got a huge case of just that.

Who are the parties?

Producers and consumers. Maybe individuals, but more likely groups: projects
and companies.

There are three ways to reciprocate: time, product, and money. All are part of
a healthy diet. There's not one exact right answer, but we could stand to be
clearer on the *range* of behaviors that is appropriate for people 

Open Source Pledge is a social contract, right now it's about money and that's
what we're focused on. Some day it could also address product and time. Drupal
and WordPress have systems for time accounting, as does typescript-eslint on a
smaller scale. Companies that offer in-kind can probably give us the fair
market value pretty easily.

These are all invitations. We're in the realm of social, not legal. We have a
system that makes sharing easy and sustainability hard, vs. the market where
sustainability is easy and sharing is hard. It's good to have both, to
rebalance ever so slightly.

Open Source is a gift economy because it's based not on clean transactions, but
on gifts of time, money, and resources that carry with them an obligation to
reciprocate. It is a bad gift economy because the rules are not sufficiently
shared between parties. We should make them clear in order to make Open Source
function better.

Preferential treatment in vendor relations and in marketing.
